docs(vuejs): write documentation for vuejs integration (#1828)
coveo/ui-kit: packages/samples/vuejs/README.md

# Vue.js Search Page

## Project setup

> 

Reviewer: I would rename/rephrase these instructions to be just about "here is how you can run this project locally if you desire".

The production build steps is a bit weird, since it's not meant to be used in production at all.

```sh
npm install
```

### Compiles and hot-reloads for development

```sh
npm run serve
```

### Compiles and minifies for production

```sh
npm run build
```

### Customize configuration

See [Configuration Reference](https://cli.vuejs.org/config/).

&nbsp;

## Configuring `@coveo/atomic`
&nbsp;

### Add Vue configuration to help it handle atomic's components

```js
// vue.config.js
{
  ...,

>   chainWebpack: (config) => {

Reviewer 2: Is there a way we could export a plugin which does this configuration so our clients don't have to do it themselves? I feel like that would also be easier to maintain if we need to change it in the future.

  const searchInterface = document.querySelector(
    'atomic-search-interface'
  ) as HTMLAtomicSearchInterfaceElement;

  // Initialization
  await searchInterface.initialize({
    accessToken: '<YOUR-TOKEN>',
    organizationId: '<YOUR-ORGANIZATION-ID>',
  });

  // Trigger a first search
  searchInterface.executeFirstSearch();
}

onMounted(initInterface);
```

### Using `<atomic-result-template>`

As you are aware, Vue treats the `<template>` tag as a container for Vue components and therefore doesn't render it to the page. This poses an obstacle for working with the `<atomic-result-template>`, which expects a native `<template>` that it will then use to create each result element. In order for this to work, your result templates will need to live in an html file, like in this example's `src/templates/result-template.html` and then imported and used like below

```js
// .vue component
<script setup lang="ts">
import resultTemplate from '../templates/result-template.html';
</script>

<template>
    <atomic-result-list>
      <atomic-result-template v-html="resultTemplate"></atomic-result-template>
    </atomic-result-list>
</template>

```

> This, of course, has some limitations such as not allowing you to use vue components directly into the template results. To work around that, we can make use of the helpful `defineCustomElement` function provided by Vue, which you can use in your entry file like so

Reviewer: I would put that in a section named `Using custom components`.

And I would also add more "meat on the bone", with more links to the `ResultTextField` component in the samples, a high level explanation of what the component tries to accomplish, how its usage would look like in the page, etc.

All of this so that a reader has a bit more context when they are reading that part.

# Vue.js Search Page

> This code sample was created to provide developers with a minimal working page that exemplifies the configuration and implementation of the atomic library in a Vue.js application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This code sample was created to provide developers with a minimal working page that exemplifies the configuration and implementation of the Atomic library in a Vue.js application.
```

## Project setup

If you would like to test it, you will need to run it locally by following the steps below:

```sh
npm install
npm run serve
```

> ## Using atomic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Using Atomic
```

```

Usage for both the npm package and CDN are explained in separate sections further in this file.

## Configuration

Add Vue configuration to help it handle atomic's components

```js
// vue.config.js
{
  ...,
  chainWebpack: (config) => {
    // lets us parse html templates, which will be necessary for atomic components that require the native <template> tag
    config.module
      .rule('html')
      .test(/\.html$/)
      .use('html-loader')
      .loader('html-loader');

    // tells Vue to treat any components starting with 'atomic-' as native components, and therefore not try and create Vue components out of them
    config.module
      .rule('vue')
      .use('vue-loader')
      .tap((options) => ({
        ...options,
        compilerOptions: {
          isCustomElement: (tag) => tag.startsWith('atomic-'),
        },
      }));
  }
}
```

Add the `html-loader` dev-dependency

```sh
npm install --save-dev html-loader
```

## Using the `@coveo/atomic` npm package

### Add dependencies

Install `@coveo/atomic`

```sh
npm install --save @coveo/atomic
```

Install `ncp`

```sh
npm install --save-dev ncp
```

> > `ncp` is a utility that we will use to copy assets from the atomic project into the vue application, as explained below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> `ncp` is a utility that we will use to copy assets from the atomic project into the Vue application, as explained below.
```

### Copy assets from `@coveo/atomic`

> In order for you to be able to leverage everything that atomic has to offer, you will need to copy some assets into your public folder. If you skip this step, some of your dynamic content that is based on localization or svgs will be missing, and you will see some content being displayed as the placeholder 'between-parentheses' instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To leverage everything that Atomic has to offer, you will need to copy some assets into your public folder. If you skip this step, some of your dynamic content that is based on localization or svgs will be missing, and you will see some content being displayed as the placeholder 'between-parentheses' instead.
```

```json
scripts: {
  ...,
  "dev": "npm run copy:assets && npm run serve",
  "copy:assets": "ncp node_modules/@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/assets public/assets && ncp node_modules/@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/lang public/lang"
}
```

> > The `dev` script assumes you are using the default `serve` script and `public/assets` path for running your application. Don't forget to adjust if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The `dev` script assumes you are using the default `serve` script and `public/assets` path to run your application. Don't forget to adjust if needed.
```

### Update your entry file

> The atomic package allows you to customise your components by defining CSS variables in your own stylesheet - you can read about that [here](https://docs.coveo.com/en/atomic/latest/usage/themes-and-visual-customization/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Atomic package allows you to customize your components by defining CSS variables in your own stylesheet (see [Themes and Visual Customization](https://docs.coveo.com/en/atomic/latest/usage/themes-and-visual-customization/)).
```
We generally use North American English 🙃

Author: sorry, I'm tryinggg

Reviewer 3: No worries at all, as I wrote above your doc looks very good 😄 👍 
I just didn't want my comment to look arbitrary 😉

> It also offers you a default theme that you can use as is or build upon. Those styles live in `@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/themes/coveo.css` and you can import them in your entry js file like below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It also offers you a default theme that you can use as is or build upon. Those styles live in `@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/themes/coveo.css` and you can import them in your entry js file as follows.
```

```ts
import '@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/themes/coveo.css'; // optional!
import {applyPolyfills, defineCustomElements} from '@coveo/atomic/loader';
import {createApp} from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';

// Bind the custom elements to the window object [https://stenciljs.com/docs/vue]
applyPolyfills().then(() => {
  defineCustomElements(window);
});

createApp(App).mount('#app');
```

## Using the CDN

> Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.coveo.com/en/atomic/latest/usage/#cdn) to add the CDN script to your entry html file. The script will initialize your components, avoiding the need to manually do it like in the npm package usage above. You will also not need to copy any assets over.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the [instructions](https://docs.coveo.com/en/atomic/latest/usage/#cdn) to add the CDN script to your entry HTML file. The script will initialize your components, avoiding the need to manually do so as in the npm package usage above. You will also not need to copy any assets over.
```

## Initializing your search interface

After you render your search interface, make sure to initialize it

```js
import {onMounted} from 'vue';

async function initInterface() {
  await customElements.whenDefined('atomic-search-interface');
  const searchInterface = document.querySelector(
    'atomic-search-interface'
  ) as HTMLAtomicSearchInterfaceElement;

  // Initialization
  await searchInterface.initialize({
    accessToken: '<YOUR-TOKEN>',
    organizationId: '<YOUR-ORGANIZATION-ID>',
  });

  // Trigger a first search
  searchInterface.executeFirstSearch();
}

onMounted(initInterface);
```

### Using `<atomic-result-template>`

> As you are aware, Vue treats the `<template>` tag as a container for Vue components and therefore doesn't render it to the page. This poses an obstacle for working with the `<atomic-result-template>`, which expects a native `<template>` that it will then use to create each result element. In order for this to work, your result templates will need to live in an html file, like in this example's `src/templates/result-template.html` and then imported and used like below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As you are aware, Vue treats the `<template>` tag as a container for Vue components and therefore doesn't render it to the page. This poses an obstacle for working with the `<atomic-result-template>`, which expects a native `<template>` that it will then use to create each result element. In order for this to work, your result templates will need to live in an HTML file (like in this example's `src/templates/result-template.html` file) and then imported and used like below
```

```html
<!-- .vue component -->
<script setup lang="ts">
import resultTemplate from '../templates/result-template.html';
</script>

<template>
    <atomic-result-list>
      <atomic-result-template v-html="resultTemplate"></atomic-result-template>
    </atomic-result-list>
</template>

```

### Using custom components

> Writing your own components to leverage Vue components should be as straightforward as using the atomic components on any other page. However, it becomes a little bit trickier when you want to use a custom Vue component inside your result templates which, as shown above, need to be passed down as raw html.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing your own components to leverage Vue components should be as straightforward as using Atomic components on any other page. However, it becomes a little bit trickier when you want to use a custom Vue component inside your result templates which, as shown above, need to be passed down as raw HTML.
```

> For example, in this project we defined the simple `ResultTextField` component, which takes a `label` and a `field` as `props` and render some atomic components

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, in this project we defined the simple `ResultTextField` component, which takes a `label` and a `field` as `props` and render some Atomic components.
```

```html
<!-- ResultTextField.vue -->
<script setup lang="ts">
const props = defineProps({
  label: String,
  field: String,
});
</script>

<template>
  <atomic-text :value="props.label"></atomic-text>:
  <atomic-result-text :field="props.field"></atomic-result-text>
</template>

```

> If you try to use this component in an html template like the snippet below and then try to use in in the component below it, Vue will not attempt to render it, as it expects onli native html to be passed via the `v-html` directive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you try to use this component in an html template like the snippet below, and then try to use it in the component further below it, Vue will not attempt to render it. The reason is that Vue it expects only native HTML to be passed via the `v-html` directive.
```
(maintly just because the sentence was long and harder to read for that reason)

```html
<!-- templates/result-template.html -->
<template>
  <atomic-result-fields-list>
  <atomic-field-condition class="field" if-defined="cat_platform">
    <result-text-field label="Platform" field="cat_platform"></result-text-field>
  </atomic-field-condition>
  <atomic-field-condition class="field" if-defined="cat_condition">
    <result-text-field label="Condition" field="cat_condition"></result-text-field>
  </atomic-field-condition>
  <atomic-field-condition class="field" if-defined="cat_categories">
    <result-text-field label="Tags" field="cat_categories"></result-text-field>
  </atomic-field-condition>
</atomic-result-fields-list>
</template>
```

```html
 <!-- .vue component -->
<script setup lang="ts">
import resultTemplate from '../templates/result-template.html';
</script>

<template>
    <atomic-result-list>
      <atomic-result-template v-html="resultTemplate"></atomic-result-template>
    </atomic-result-list>
</template>

```

> The solution here is to import your component and define it as a custom element in the browser. In your entry js file, make sure to define your element with the vue helper function and then define it in the browser with the native `customElements.define` function. By doing this, the snippets above will work and you can use your Vue components in html templates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The solution is to import your component and define it as a custom element in the browser. In your entry js file, make sure to define your element with the Vue helper function and then define it in the browser with the native `customElements.define` function. By doing this, the snippets above will work and you can use your Vue components in HTML templates.
```

```js
// handy helper function that transforms a vue component into something the browser can use
import {defineCustomElement} from 'vue';

> // custom component that you want to use inside your html template

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// custom component that you want to use inside your HTML template
```

> # Vue.js Search Page

Reviewer: As an intro we could explain the purpose of this project/package, which is to showcase an implementation with vuejs + Atomic, and to work out the quirks of such an implementation.

And this this is not meant to be used as is in production, but as a demonstration of some patterns + configuration.

The goal is that if someone stumble on this README while browsing our repo, they should quickly understand that it's "code sample".

## Project setup

```sh
npm install
```

### Compiles and hot-reloads for development

```sh
npm run serve
```

### Compiles and minifies for production

```sh
npm run build
```

### Customize configuration

See [Configuration Reference](https://cli.vuejs.org/config/).

&nbsp;

## Configuring `@coveo/atomic`
&nbsp;

### Add Vue configuration to help it handle atomic's components

```js
// vue.config.js
{
  ...,
  chainWebpack: (config) => {
    // lets us parse html templates, which will be necessary for atomic components that require the native <template> tag
    config.module
      .rule('html')
      .test(/\.html$/)
      .use('html-loader')
      .loader('html-loader');

    // tells Vue to treat any components starting with 'atomic-' as native components, and therefore not try and create Vue components out of them
    config.module
      .rule('vue')
      .use('vue-loader')
      .tap((options) => ({
        ...options,
        compilerOptions: {
          isCustomElement: (tag) => tag.startsWith('atomic-'),
        },
      }));
  }
}
```

### Add dependencies

`html-loader` is necessary for the configuration above to work and

> `ncp` is a utility that we will use to copy some assets from the atomic project into the vue project in the next step

Reviewer: I think we should explain why it's needed to copy assets in the public folder, and what happens if this is not done/what symptom will appear.

ie: Labels will appear as temporary placeholder.

Just so that someone that forget to do this part, then comes back to the doc to troubleshoot will easily spot  the fix/resolution.

```sh
npm install --save-dev ncp html-loader
```

### Add scripts to package.json
In order for you to be able to leverage everything that atomic has to offer, you will need to add the following scripts to your `package.json` file:
```json
scripts: {
  ...,
  "dev": "npm run copy:assets && npm run serve",
  "copy:assets": "ncp node_modules/@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/assets public/assets && ncp node_modules/@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/lang public/lang"
}
```
The `dev` script assumes you are using the default `serve` script for running your application.

> > **Note:** If you are trying to use `@coveo/atomic` in a project that runs on [vite](https://vitejs.dev/), as per [this tutorial](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start.html#with-build-tools), you might need to [import atomic via cdn](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start.html#with-build-tools), as currently there are issues setting up stencils projects using this build tool. In this case, you won't need to add the assets as they will already be available.

Reviewer: For this note, we should add a complete example of what it would look like to use the CDN, and how the configuration would be different.

We could even have two complete different section in the REAME, one about importing from the CDN + config, and one about importing from node_modules + config.

&nbsp;
## Using `@coveo/atomic`
&nbsp;

In your entry file, import the assets and define atomic custom elements before creating your app.

```ts

> import '@coveo/atomic/dist/atomic/themes/coveo.css';

Reviewer: We should add an explanation about the theming file import, a link to Atomic theming documentation ( https://docs.coveo.com/en/atomic/latest/usage/themes-and-visual-customization/ ), and how this import can be omitted if an implementer wishes to define all the variable manually in their own `styles.css`.

import {applyPolyfills, defineCustomElements} from '@coveo/atomic/loader';
import {createApp} from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';

> applyPolyfills().then(() => {

Reviewer 4: Should specify that this is only necessary when using Atomic directly (not using the CDN)
